[docs]: Stargate migration guides (#7771)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/migrations/README.md

> # Update to Cosmos-SDK v0.40

Reviewer: The README shouldn't be that long, it should only include a table of contents.

Based on what I'm reading here, I think the ideal way would be:
1. one page for upgrading modules
2. one page for upgrading the app
3. one page for a live chain upgrade

#### types/codec.go
- `codec.New()` is changed to `codec.NewLegacyAmino()`.
- Added `RegisterInterfaces` method in which we add `RegisterImplementations` and `RegisterInterfaces` based on msgs and interfaces in module.

    ```go
    func RegisterInterfaces(registry types.InterfaceRegistry) {
        registry.RegisterImplementations((*sdk.Msg)(nil),
            &MsgSend{},
            &MsgMultiSend{},
        )

        registry.RegisterInterface(
            "cosmos.bank.v1beta1.SupplyI",
            (*exported.SupplyI)(nil),
            &Supply{},
        )
    }
    ```
- `init()` changed from:
    ```go
    func init() {
	    RegisterCodec(cdc)
    }
    ```
    to:
    ```go
    func init() {
	    RegisterLegacyAminoCodec(amino)
	    cryptocodec.RegisterCrypto(amino)
    }
    ```
#### Msgs
SDK now leverages protobuf service definitions for defining Msgs which will give us significant developer UX 
improvements in terms of the code that is generated and the fact that return types will now be well defined.
`sdk.Msg`'s are now replaced by protobuf services. Now every sdk.Msg is defined as a protobuf service method.
Example: 
```proto
package cosmos.bank;

service Msg {

>   rpc Send(MsgSend) returns (MsgSendResponse);

Reviewer 2: should we add something about request type naming convention? (see 3rd paragraph of https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/1cc8af8d9be1cd85f628c8dd641d6d191098637a/docs/building-modules/messages-and-queries.md#msg-services)

The fully-qualified name for the SubmitProposal service method above (also based on the proto3 and gRPC specs) is 
/cosmos.bank.Msg/Send which varies by a single / character. The generated .pb.go files for protobuf services 
include names of this form and any compliant protobuf/gRPC code generator will generate the same name.
In order to encode service methods in transactions, we encode them as Anys in the same TxBody.messages field as 
other Msgs. We simply set Any.type_url to the full-qualified method name (ex. /cosmos.bank.Msg/Send) and 
set Any.value to the protobuf encoding of the request message (MsgSend in this case).

*Decoding:*
When decoding, TxBody.UnpackInterfaces will need a special case to detect if Any type URLs match the service method format (ex. /cosmos.gov.Msg/SubmitProposal) by checking for two / characters. Messages that are method names plus request parameters instead of a normal Any messages will get unpacked into the ServiceMsg struct:

type ServiceMsg struct {
  // MethodName is the fully-qualified service name
  MethodName string
  // Request is the request payload
  Request MsgRequest
}

#### Keeper

> The `Keeper` constructor now takes a `codec.Marshaler` instead of a concrete Amino codec. This exact type provided is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Keeper` constructor now takes a `codec.Marshaler` instead of a concrete Amino codec. The exact type provided is 
```

        // register all interfaces in module.
	    types.RegisterInterfaces(registry) //module's types/codec.go
    }
    ````
* `DefaultGenesis()` takes codec input now
    ```go
    func (AppModuleBasic) DefaultGenesis(cdc codec.JSONMarshaler) json.RawMessage {}
    ```
* `ValidateGenesis` now requires `Marshaler`, `TxEncodingConfig`, `json.RawMessage` as input.
    ```go
    func (AppModuleBasic) ValidateGenesis(cdc codec.JSONMarshaler, config client.TxEncodingConfig, bz json.RawMessage) error {}
    ```
* `GetQueryCmd(cdc *codec.Codec)`,`GetTxCmd(cdc *codec.Codec)` is changed to `GetQueryCmd()`,`GetTxCmd()` respectively.
* Return type of `Route()` method which implements `AppModule` is changed from `string` to `"github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types".Route`. We will return a NewRoute which includes `RouterKey` and `NewHandler` as params.
    ```go
    func (am AppModule) Route() sdk.Route {
        return sdk.NewRoute(types.RouterKey, handler.NewHandler(am.keeper))
    }
    ```
* `QuerierHandler` is renamed to `LegacyQuerierHandler`.
  ```go
    func (am AppModule) LegacyQuerierHandler(legacyQuerierCdc *codec.LegacyAmino) sdk.Querier {}
  ```

> * `RegisterServices` is added newly and it registers module's `MsgServer` and gRPC's `QueryServer`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `RegisterServices` is newly added and registers module's `MsgServer` and gRPC's `QueryServer`.
```

  ```go
  func (am AppModule) RegisterServices(cfg module.Configurator) {
      types.RegisterMsgServer(cfg.MsgServer(), keeper.NewMsgServerImpl(am.keeper))
      types.RegisterQueryServer(cfg.QueryServer(), am.keeper)
  }
  ```

> * `RegisterGRPCGatewayRoutes` is added newly which is for registering module's gRPC gateway routes with API Server.`RegisterQueryHandlerClient` is auto generated by proto code generator.

Reviewer: these items look like CHANGELOG entries, I think it's a bit useless to put them here in this format. I can think about this.

> * `RegisterGRPCGatewayRoutes` is added newly which is for registering module's gRPC gateway routes with API Server.`RegisterQueryHandlerClient` is auto generated by proto code generator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `RegisterGRPCGatewayRoutes` is newly added for registering module's gRPC gateway routes with API Server.`RegisterQueryHandlerClient` is auto generated by proto code generator.
```

#### BaseApp
`BaseApp` now has two new fields, `GRPCQueryRouter` and `MsgServiceRouter`
- `GRPCQueryRouter` routes ABCI Query requests to GRPC handlers.
- `GRPCQueryHandler` defines a function type which handles ABCI Query requests using gRPC

##### gRPC Router (baseapp/grpcrouter.go)
It has `GRPCQueryRouter` and `GRPCQueryHandler`. `GRPCQueryRouter` routes ABCI Query requests to respective GRPC 
handlers and is used in abci `Route`. `GRPCQueryHandler` defines a function type which handles ABCI Query requests
using gRPC.

##### Server
`GRPCRouter` and `Telemetry` are added newly to `Server`.
```go
// Server defines the server's API interface.
type Server struct {
	Router     *mux.Router
	GRPCRouter *runtime.ServeMux
	ClientCtx  client.Context

	logger   log.Logger
	metrics  *telemetry.Metrics
	listener net.Listener
}
```

`CustomGRPCHeaderMatcher` is an interceptor for gRPC gateway requests. It is useful for mapping request headers to
GRPC metadata. HTTP headers that start with 'Grpc-Metadata-' are automatically mapped to gRPC metadata after 
removing prefix 'Grpc-Metadata-'. We can use this CustomGRPCHeaderMatcher if headers don't start with `Grpc-Metadata-`.

> - API is made `in-process` with the node now. The configuration to enable/disable API, Swagger are now available in `app.toml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- API is made `in-process` with the node now. Enabling/disabling the API server and Swagger can now be configured from `app.toml`
```
